[Documentation]Instructions on how to take your application to production (#345)
dotnet/spark: docs/take-to-prod.md

> Taking your Spark .Net Application to Production

Reviewer: Do we need to call it ".NET for Apache Spark" or ".NET for Spark" application instead (since we steer away from calling it Spark.NET publicly)? Also, I think ".NET" should be all caps for consistency.

Author: Sure, I will change it to `.NET for Spark` for now. And keep all `.NET` caps. Thanks!

===

# Table of Contents

> This how-to provides general instructions on how to take your .NET for Apache Spark application to production.

Reviewer: What does it mean to take an app to production? Perhaps add a couple words/sentence defining that (does it just mean running on-prem? Deploying to cloud? Building and running `spark-submit`? CI/CD?)

Author: Great point! @rapoth Could you please help with elaborating this a little more?

> In this documentation, we will summary the most commonly asked scenarios when running Spark .Net Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this documentation, we will summarize the most commonly asked scenarios when running a .NET for Spark application.
```

Author: Changed

> And you will also learn how to package your application and submit your application with [spark-submit](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and [Apachy Livy](https://livy.incubator.apache.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also learn how to package your application and submit your application with [spark-submit](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and [Apachy Livy](https://livy.incubator.apache.org/).
```

Author: Changed.

> - [How to take your application to production when you have single dependency](#how-to-take-your-application-to-production-when-you-have-single-dependency)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to take your application to production when you have a single dependency](#how-to-take-your-application-to-production-when-you-have-a-single-dependency)
```

Not sure if we can change the phrasing here and still have it be precise, but "a single dependency" might sound a little cleaner.

Reviewer: Alternatively, could we make these headings either more concise or more precise? i.e., either remove the "How to take your application to production" part since that phrase is already in the article title, or add a phrase that more specifically states what it means to take an app to production (does it just mean running `spark-submit`, so we could say something like "Deploy app with a single dependency"?).

```suggestion
- [Single dependency](#single-dependency)
```

```suggestion
- [How to deploy your application when you have a single dependency](#how-to-deploy-your-application-when-you-have-a-single-dependency)
```

Author: Thanks for your suggestion! I would prefer the second one which I think is concise and precise.

>   - [Scenarios - Scenario 1 and Scenario 2](#scenarios---single-dependency)

Reviewer: Could we potentially just say "Scenarios" (so that users don't immediately wonder what 1 and 2 mean), or include a couple words about the scenarios in this header/link (so that users know what they mean), and/or divide each scenario onto its own bullet point/line?

Author: I think just say `Scenarios` would be good otherwise it's gonna be very long.

  - [Package your application](#package-your-application---single-dependency)
  - [Launch your application](#launch-your-application---single-dependency)

> - [How to take your application to production when you have multiple dependencies](#how-to-take-your-application-to-production-when-you-have-multiple-dependencies)

Reviewer: Same comment about potentially making this title shorter or more explicit/precise about what it means to take an app to production.

>   - [Scenarios - Scenario 3, Scenario 4, Scenario 5 and Scenario 6](#scenarios---multiple-dependencies)

Reviewer: Same comment as scenarios layout/wording in single dependency section.

  - [Package your application](#package-your-application---multiple-dependencies)
  - [Launch your application](#launch-your-application---multiple-dependencies)

## How to deploy your application when you have a single dependency

> ### Scenarios - single dependency

Reviewer 2: listing `-single dependency` and `- multiple dependencies` in these subsections isn't necessary.  The parent headers already say that the following will be for single or multiple dependencies.

> ## How to take your application to production when you have single dependency

Reviewer: If we decide to shorten/change phrasing of these titles (as expressed in previous comment), adjust this heading to match new title.

> #### Scenario 1. SparkSession code and business logic in the same Program.cs file

Reviewer 2: Do you have to put `Scenario <number>` ?  The parent header already says `Scenarios`.

> ### Scenarios - single dependency

Reviewer: What does single dependency mean? I think it could help users to include a short explanation here or at the top of the document of what a dependency means in the .NET for Spark context.

Author: Actually I am not so sure if we should use `single dependency` and `multiple dependency` to define and separate these scenarios. @rapoth and @imback82 any suggestions? Thanks.

> This would be the simple usecase when you have SparkSession code and business logic (UDFs) in the same Program.cs file and in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be the simple use case when you have `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) in the same Program.cs file and in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).
```

#### Scenario 2. SparkSession code and business logic in the same project, but different .cs files
This would be the use case when you have `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) in the different .cs files but in the same project (e.g. SparkSession in Program.cs, business logic in BusinessLogic.cs and both are in mySparkApp.csproj).

> ### Package your application - single dependency

Reviewer 2: I don't know if this section is too useful.

> This would be the usecase when you have SparkSession code and business logic (UDFs) in the different .cs files but in the same project (e.g. SparkSession in Program.cs, business logic in BusinessLogic.cs and both are in mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be the use case when you have `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) in the different .cs files but in the same project (e.g. `SparkSession` in Program.cs, business logic in BusinessLogic.cs and both are in mySparkApp.csproj).
```

Please follow [Get Started](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/#get-started) to build your application in Scenario 1 and Scenario 2.

> ### Launch your application - single dependency

Reviewer 2: remove `-single dependency`

#### 1. Using spark-submit

> Please see below as an example of running your app with `spark-submit` in Scenario 1 and Scenario 2.

Reviewer 2: Can do without this line.

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: You're using %SPARK_HOME% so seems like a windows example.   use `powershell` instead of `shell`

%SPARK_HOME%\bin\spark-submit \
--class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \

> --master local \

Reviewer 2: why is this `--master local` if this document is showcasing submit to production environments ?

--files bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\mySparkApp.dll \

> bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar \

Reviewer: Is it okay to use exact versions (i.e. Spark 2.4, Spark.NET 0.6.0, netcoreapp3.0)? Or do we want to keep it more general with a tag like: microsoft-spark-<major version>...

Author: Sure, I have made it more general.

> dotnet bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\mySparkApp.dll <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>

Reviewer 2: change bin\Debug to something else like `/path/to/...`

> dotnet bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\mySparkApp.dll <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>

Reviewer 2: You're running the .dll using `dotnet`.  This example assumes that `dotnet` is installed on a user's cluster.

```
#### 2. Using Apache Livy

> Please see below as an example of running your app with Apache Livy in Scenario 1 and Scenario 2.

Reviewer 2: Can do without this line

```shell
{
    "file": "adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar",
    "className": "org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner",
    "files": [“adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.dll" ],
    "args": ["dotnet","adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.dll","<app arg 1>","<app arg 2>,"...","<app arg n>"]
}
```

> ## How to take your application to production when you have multiple dependencies

Reviewer: Similar comments about this header as for the single dependency header.

> ### Scenarios - multiple dependencies

Reviewer 2: remove `-multiple dependencies`

> #### Scenario 3. SparkSession code in one project that references another project including the business logic

Reviewer 2: remove `Scenario <number>`

> This would be the usecase when you have SparkSession code in one project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj) and business logic (UDFs) in another project (e.g. businessLogic.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be the use case when you have `SparkSession` code in one project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj) and business logic (UDFs) in another project (e.g. businessLogic.csproj).
```

#### Scenario 4. SparkSession code references a function from a Nuget package that has been installed in the csproj

> This would be the usecase when SparkSession code references a function from a Nuget package in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code references a function from a Nuget package in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).
```

> #### Scenario 5. SparkSession code references a function from a DLL on the user machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Scenario 5. SparkSession code references a function from a DLL on the user's machine
```

> This would be the usecase when SparkSession code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user machine (e.g. SparkSession code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user's machine (e.g. `SparkSession` code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 
```

> This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user's machine (e.g. `SparkSession` code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 

Reviewer 2: Why does businessLogic.dll be from a different machine ?

#### Scenario 6. SparkSession code references functions and business logic from multiple projects/solutions that themselves depend on multiple Nuget packages

> This would be a more complex usecase when you have SparkSession code reference business logic (UDFs) and functions from nuget packages in multiple projects and/or solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be a more complex use case when you have `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) and functions from Nuget packages in multiple projects and/or solutions.
```

> ### Package your application - multiple dependencies

Reviewer 2: remove `-multiple dependencies`

- Please follow [Get Started](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/#get-started) to build your mySparkApp.csproj in Scenario 4 and Scenario 5 (and businessLogic.csproj for Scenario 3).

> - Please see detailed steps [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/tree/master/deployment#preparing-your-spark-net-app) on how to build, publish and zip your application in Scenario 6. After packaging your .Net for Spark application, you will have a zip file (e.g. mySparkApp.zip) which has all the dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Please see detailed steps [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/tree/master/deployment#preparing-your-spark-net-app) on how to build, publish and zip your application in Scenario 6. After packaging your .NET for Spark application, you will have a zip file (e.g. mySparkApp.zip) which has all the dependencies.
```

> ### Launch your application - multiple dependencies

Reviewer 2: remove `-multiple dependencies`

Author: So all the suffix of `--single dependency` and `multiple dependencies` are for `table of content`. Since we have `Scenarios`, `Package your application`, `Launch your application` in both single dependency and multiple dependencies, I want to use these suffix to different them in these two sections for the linking of `table of content`, otherwise they will be all link to the first section.

Reviewer 2: Please see this [example](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/tree/master/deployment).

#### 1. Using spark-submit
- Please see below as an example of running your app with `spark-submit` in Scenario 3 and Scenario 5.

> And you should use `--files bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\nugetLibrary.dll` in Scenario 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you should use `--files bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\nugetLibrary.dll` in Scenario 4.
```

Reviewer: Similar comment as earlier for this line and commands below, is it okay to use precise version numbers (that may at some point become outdated)?

```shell
%SPARK_HOME%\bin\spark-submit \
--class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
--master local \
--files bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\businessLogic.dll \
bin\Debug\<dotnet version>\microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar \
dotnet bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.0\mySparkApp.dll <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>

> ```

Reviewer 2: For these scenarios, users should just put all their dependencies in one `zip` and use the `zip` submitting instructions

- Please see below as an example of running your app with `spark-submit` in Scenario 6.
```shell
spark-submit \
--class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode cluster \
--conf spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS=./udfs \
--conf spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS=./myLibraries.zip \
--archives hdfs://<path to your files>/businessLogics.zip#udfs,hdfs://<path to your files>/myLibraries.zip \
hdfs://<path to jar file>/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar \
hdfs://<path to your files>/mySparkApp.zip mySparkApp <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>
```
#### 2. Using Apache Livy
- Please see below as an example of running your app with Apache Livy in Scenario 3 and Scenario 5.

> And you should use `"files": ["adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/nugetLibrary.dll"]` in Scenario 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you should use `"files": ["adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/nugetLibrary.dll"]` in Scenario 4.
```

Author: I have made the changed to resolve all the comments (except few which need some input). Thanks so much @bamurtaugh for your comments and feedback!

```shell
{
    "file": "adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar",
    "className": "org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner",
    "files": [“adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/businessLogic.dll" ],
    "args": ["dotnet","adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.dll","<app arg 1>","<app arg 2>,"...","<app arg n>"]
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Should just provide the `zip` example.

Author: Thanks for your comments! I have resolved all of them in this pr #349(I open a new pr #349 cause I could not edit on this one and will close this soon). Let's discuss and review in the new pr. Thanks for your understanding and sorry for the inconvenience.
